due to the ongoing War for the past 8
months the status of medical equipment
and machines in Gaza hospitals has been
quite dire and catastrophic and here are
some of the key points of the situation
that shortage of medical supplies the
lack of advanc of medical equipment the
electricity and shortage of a fuel is
among the many problems that are causing
this Health Care System across the strip
to be overwhelmed and close to be very
crippled everywhere go this particular
Hospital many of the machines and
Equipment are broken are not operational
and the fact that we're seeing right now
here in the hospital a medical engineer
from one of the medical missions
volunteering at alaka hospital working
on fixing some of these machines so
they're back on track helping the
medical staff and the hospital to Opera
and sustain khed good to have you with
us can you tell us what what's going on
here uh so we have a c
one it's the image intensifier one out
of two that it's not working so we're
looking at it now we're trying to
pinpoint the problem exactly to know why
it's not
working uh we had two of these machines
in the hospital this one has been done
for more than a month the other one uh
has been down for about 10 days now
thankfully we were able to get it back
on track working yesterday so what that
means is for the past 10 days we had no
image int intensifier working in the
entire Hospital which means all
Emergency Operations and surgeries had
to be posed put on hold and patients are
just piling up which made a big big
workload on the doctors we have three
anesthesia machines right now in this
hospital and all three out of three are
not working so this is one of the
machines that you worked on and getting
it ready back to the operation rooms how
did you get back on track actually it
was very challenging it was both
software and Hardware problem and there
is uh sometimes is because especially
that it's both of them we can say that
one of them at least was CA due to the
electricity keeps cutting out and coming
back which are uh which can overwhelmed
the power source and uh burn the
motherboards so the motherboard was the
hardware issue and then we had the
software issue as well you're here
volunteering supporting this hospital to
keep running to keep sustainable at the
very very difficult situation what has
been your personal experience so far um
I've I've got no words it's nothing like
like I've experienced before even though
uh I've I've had a lot of uh programs to
prepare me for this and I I've watched
as many videos as I can but when you're
in the situation it's different when
when it's life saving people go out of
the ordinary out of the textbook and
they just come out with with Solutions
but still these Solutions do not always
work but you can see that they they do
their best they go above and beyond my
My overall about the situation is it's
uh it's it's unbearable it's it's not
normal hospitals shouldn't be that way
hospitals are overcrowded they running
on 300% capacity hany Mahmud AL jazer
Central Gaza
Palestine make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler